# Network Analysis Project

You are managing the command and control of a tool that has been deployed against a targeted enemy machine. The target machine controls enemy missiles in real time, and your tool is designed to modify that control in various ways. The real-time operations require extreme speed in communicating with the target, and you've been asked to find the path across the network from your command server to the target that will minimize network delay.

You've been provided with a JSON file ([`network.json`](./network.json)) that contains the IP addresses of 300 computers, the delay (in microseconds) of the 400 connections between those machines, the IP address of your command server, and the IP address of the target malicious machine against which your tool has been deployed.

You will write 2 modules and 1 simple program to solve this problem.

## Parsing JSON data

First, write a module that can parse data from a JSON file. There is a built-in Python module that does this automatically, but unfortunately, your work space is isolated from the internet and your Python installation is defective (you're also glad to have this opportunity to practice your Python). When you are finished with this part you should be able to read the data in `network.json` into a dictionary.

There is a template in [`parse.py`](./parse.py). The 2 main functions you must implement are `parse_object` and `parse_array`, which will call each other if/when objects and arrays nest inside each other.

## Implement Dijkstra's Algorithm

Second, implement Dijkstra's shortest paths algorithm. There is a template in [`graph.py`](./graph.py).

This module will be the core computational engine that will find the shortest path to the target.

## Analyze the network

Use the modules you've created to find the shortest path to the target machine. There is no template; you'll need to write the whole program yourself in `analysis.py`.