## _How to Write Clean Code_

[Back to README](README.md)

Clean code is extremely important to readability and functionality. 

Some projects in our jobs are team-based and require multiple people to be able to read, understand, and expand upon your code to complete other requirements.

## Follow these suggestions when writing code:
Understandability
- Be consistent: If you do things one way, ensure that you do it the same way each and every time. This gives your team the best chance to understand your code as you wrote it.
- Use Explanatory Variables: Let the names of the variables explain what they do.
- Avoid negative conditionals: Don't rely on negation of boolean values in your if conditionals. Make sure that the boolean variable is tracking the state of something, not the opposite of the current state. 

Naming
* Chose descriptive and unambiguous names: Keep your names within program scope and relevant to the values they contain, or the return value of the function.
* Make Meaningful Distinction: Do not make each variable close in name to each other. Different variables should have meaningfully different names
* Use Pronounceable Names: Your code will be discussed in person. Make it easy on yourself and other readers on what your variables are named. This practice is to prevent confusion.
* Use Searchable Names: Allow users to easily search for your variable names within a program. 

Functions Rules
* Small: Multiple simple functions is more readable, and easier to debug (!), than one huge function. 
* Do One Thing: Have one predictable return value from one distinct function. If you need to do more than one different thing, make another function.
* Prefer Fewer Arguments: Do not pass high numbers of arguments. It makes repeated calling unnecessarily difficult.
* Have No Side Effects: Ensure that the overall program is not affected by your function execution.

Commenting  
* Let Your Code Explain For You: Your code should speak for itself. Do not always require comments to figure out what your code is doing.
* Don't Be Redundant: Explain what your code cannot communicate, not what it can.
* Don't Comment Out Code: If code is unnecessary, just delete it.
* Use As Explanation of Intent: Your comments are telling us how a given code segment contributes to the overall program execution. This is what you are trying to explain. 

Structural:
* Separate Different Concepts Vertically - Unique concepts, variables, function calls should be separated vertically by new lines.
* Group Similar Concepts Vertically - Similar concepts, variables, return values should be visibly related through vertical spacing. If the concepts are similar to each other, don't separate with a large chunk of whitespace.
* Dependent Functions Should Be Close - Functions that depend on the execution of another should be vertically close within a program. If you have one function that calls another, don't have them on opposite sides of the program.
* Keep Lines Short - Keeping your lines of code short enhances readability.

[Back to README](README.md)