# Demonstrate understanding of disassembly

- Disassemble the following bytes as x86 instructions using the Intel manual, Vol. 2. Assume that the current operand-size attribute is 32 or 64 bits.
  - First, skim sections 2.1 and 2.2 of Vol. 2. These cover the basics of x86 instruction format.
  - Then use Appendices A and B to perform the disassembly. The sections you should consult (roughly in order) for the first instruction are:
  	- Table A-2 (on page A-7 of Vol. 2D)
	- Table A-6 to finish interpreting the opcode (on page A-18 of Vol. 2D)
	- Sections A.2.1 and A.2.2 to start understanding the operands
	- Table B-13 (Notice that Table B-14 contains formats specific to 64-bit mode, but none of these match the bytes given; 64-bit mode is a superset of 32-bit mode (see the first papragraph of Appendix B), and so we can find our answer in Table B-13)
	- Table B-3 (finally to get the register operand)

| opcode | instruction |
|:-------|:-----------:|
| 81 C3 42 42 42 42 | `___ ___, 0x42424242` |
| 05 41 41 41 41    | `add eax, 0x41414141` |
| 81 E9 43 43 43 43 | `___ ___, 0x43434343` |
| 81 E2 44 44 44 44 | `___ ___, 0x44444444` |


- Disassemble the following bytes.
  - You will have to find the boundaries between instructions for yourself.
  - This can be done entirely from Table A-2.
  - Note that when this table specifies 2 possible registers (e.g., rSI/r14), you assume the first register unless there is a REX prefix byte in front of the opcode (see the last paragraph of section A.2.3).
  - These are some of the most important opcodes to be familiar with.

Bytes:

```
57 cc 5f 90 c3
```

Instructions:

```

```

- What if you replace the initial byte `57` with `81 c3`? To find out, disassemble the following bytes (you should be able to use your previous work to do this without consulting the manual).

Bytes:

```
81 c3 cc 5f 90 c3
```

Instructions:

```

```

- You should conclude that you can get very different results from the same bytes depending on where you start disassembling. This will become very important later on and is capitalized on by a binary exploitation technique called ROP.


Reference:

- [Intel manual](https://www.intel.com/content/dam/www/public/us/en/documents/manuals/64-ia-32-architectures-software-developer-instruction-set-reference-manual-325383.pdf)
