# Demonstrate skill in writing and evaluating software tests

## Purpose

This competency will introduce you to sotware testing and the Python
unit-testing library `pytest`.


## Context

This directory contains a Python package (in the `expression` subdirectory)
intended to parse and evaluate arithmetic expressions.

The expression format specification is in [`spec.md`.](./spec.md).

You don't need to modify (or even look at!) the contents of the `expression`
package. It only provides the functionality you will be testing.

Your job will be to add more test functions to
[`test_evaluate.py'](./test_evaluate.py) to find the bugs in the package.

You will need to test all functionality described in the specification,
including that `evaluate` raises the correct types of errors (with the
correct attribute information).


## Instructions

1. Install `pytest` by running `pip install pytest`.

2. Read and understand the expression format specification.

3. Understand how `pytest` works by skimming the documentation and taking
   a look at the example tests in `test_evaluate.py`.

4. Write more `test_*` functions in [`test_evaluate.py'](./test_evaluate.py)
   to test all the functionality described in the spec. Run

     `$ pytest`

   in this directory to have `pytest` run all your test functions.

5. Succinctly document in [`bugs.txt`](./bugs.txt) all the bugs you found.
   There are 10 distinct bugs with the program. You will be publicly praised
   if you uncover unintended bugs in the program!