# Identify coding standard violations in C source code

[Back to OVERVIEW](../../README.md)

## Tasks
- [ ] Read through this markdown document.
- [ ] Open [code_style.c](./code_style.c) and follow instructions to fix code examples.

## C Coding Style
The C coding style standard is not an official universal standard. It is an evolved practice among institutions, companies and universities. Subtle variations may occur across different programming companies and communities.

A great resource for common style guide practices is at [users.ece.cmu.edu](https://users.ece.cmu.edu/~eno/coding/CCodingStandard.html), hereafter referred to as the Style Guide. The Style Guide primarily addresses code readability-- not code security.

However, code readability is critical to code maintenance, which can be critical for updating security vulnerabilities.  In this sense, coding style practices *are* related to cyber security practices.

**Top 10 Points/Sections** from the Style Guide (in a Navy programmer's opinion):

1. Naming:
   1. Usually every function performs an action, so the name should make clear what it does:
      1. `check_for_errors()` instead of `error_check()`
      2. `dump_data_to_file()` instead of `data_file()`
   2. Also, it is a part of the style guide to use lower case letters for variables with underscore separating words.
   3. Include measuring unit name (seconds, minutes, feet, etc.) in names, especially when our clients might provide values hard-coded
2. No Magic numbers.
   1. A magic number is a number that is used without obvious context as to its significance
   2. This could be to indicate errors or used in conditional statements
   3. All important and potentially changeable values should be defined in an appropriate file with a capitalized name that indicates its purpose.
   4. e.g.
      1. `#define MTU_SIZE 1860`
3. Protect against multiple inclusion of header files by using macro guards
   1. ```c
      #ifndef MY_HEADER_H
      #define MY_HEADER_H
      // header stuff ...
      #endif
      ```
4. Do not define variables in header files, this causes compilation problems
5. Comment your code regularly in a sensible descriptive fashion, but don't state the obvious
   1.  e.g. `int counter = 0; // initializing counter variable to 0`
6. Initialize all your variables of every type.
   1. There should never be a pointer declared that is not immediately assigned to something, even if its `NULL`.
7. Check every function call for an error return, unless you know you wish to ignore errors
   1. For example, `printf` returns an error code but rarely would you check for its return code.
8. Lines should not exceed 78 characters.
   1. This one can be hard to follow, but it is proper C style.
9.  Do not put parentheses next to keywords.
    1.  Put a space between them.
10. Do not use `goto` statements
    1.  There is *almost* never a valid reason to do this

> FINAL NOTE:  The Style Guide says to to use a leading `{` curly brace on the same line as the start of a control block.  Opinions on this vary.  You can have every leading curly brace on an empty line aligned with its programmer curly brace.

## Style Exercise
Open [code_style.c](./code_style.c) and follow instructions to fix six code examples.

[Back to OVERVIEW](../../README.md)
