# Coding Fundamentals

You are here to train as a CNO Developer. As a CNO Developer, you will be tasked with tool development and software creation for use by US Cyber Command. 

Along with the other principles discussed in [Clean Code](0.04_Clean_Code.md) you will be required to tackle complex problems both individually and as a part of a team.

Check the appendix at the bottom of this document for definitions.

## Languages
Languages are the way by which we "talk" to the machine. 
The code that we make is turned into machine code, bytes, but we very rarely code in bytes.

We have abstracted from machine language, direct bytes, to programming languages like C and Python. They have similarities and differences, but are ultimately both an abstraction which makes it much easier for us to program on a system.

> C is currently a low-level language. It is relatively closer to machine code (or employs fewer abstractions) than high-level languages. This gives you more freedom for direct interaction with system functions (given the proper permissions) and more opportunity to improperly use the system.

  
> Python is a high-level language due to the number of high-level built in data structures, its dynamic typing, and dynamic binding. All this means is that the language is readable and variables are easy to modify

## Variables
The easiest way to think of a variable is to treat it like a box. All languages have these boxes, but implement them in different ways.

In the scope of this introduction, just treat it like a box which can contain something.

- Folding the box is like instantiating. It can now hold something. 

- Putting something in the box is like assigning. You now have a _box_ that contains your _value_.

You can transport your box between different functions in a program, you can delete your box, and you can remove the value and store something else inside of it. 

Example:
```sh
    variable box_1;
    box_1 = value; // Put something in the box.

    box_2 = box_1 + 10; // Using the value in our box
```

## Conditionals
Program flow is often dictated through use of things called _"Conditionals"_. Formally, these are Boolean expressions which can be evaluated explicity as True or False. 

If the expresssion is true, take option 1:
> if True, do X

If the expression is False, you will do a different case indicated using _else_:
> else, do Y

You can also nest conditionals within eachother. This can take the form of nested if's or else-if's. These allow you to provide secondary, tertiary, n-level alternatives to the first conditional case. 
> if True, do x
> else if 2nd True, do Y
> else do Z

## Pseudocode

One of the most useful tools for coding is the ability to "code" in english. 

Code which represents the same logical steps but does not abide by any strict syntax is called _"Pseudocode"_.

This is often step one in solving a more complicated software problem because it helps you think about complex topics and algorithms in human language.

Someone has tasked you solve the given problem. Let's break it down using Pseudocode!

> Given a number N, return how many prime numbers exist between 1 and N. *This number is not inclusive of 1, or N*.

At first look, this may seem difficult. Instead of getting overwhelmed by a difficult problem, narrow it down to a smaller scope.

First step is to think about a single number. How do we know if it is prime or not? You test each digit from 2 to _number_ to see if it can evenly divide into it. One way to reduce the number of checks is to ensure that you only divide your current number by all previous prime numbers. 

_One loop determining primality looks like this_

```sh
    ourNumber = N
    primesList = empty
    testNumber = 2
    repeat ifTrue:
        if ourNumber/testNumber is wholeNumber:
            return notPrime
        else:
            increment testNumber
```

This shows the Pseudocode solution to determine primality of a single given number.

Now we know one integral part of the total solution. Let's write up the rest in Pseudocode!

_Things to remember_
- Optimize by dividing only by other prime numbers
- Use what we just wrote to solve the bigger problem.

## Solution
```sh
    function numberIsPrime(number, primeList):
        testNumber = first number in primeList
        repeat if in primeList:
            if ourNumber/primeList_Number is wholeNumber:
                return notPrime
            else:
                try with next number in primeList
        return isPrime
    
    function howManyPrimes(Number):
        numberOfPrimes = 0
        number we are testing = 2 // Starts with 2, as 1 does not count towards the number of primes
        primeList = [1] // This is just a list containing the value 1
        repeat Number times - 2:
            if testNumber equals Number:
                return numberofPrimes
            else:
                if numberIsPrime(testNumber, primeList) is true:
                    add testNumber to back of primeList
                    increment testNumber
        return numberOfPrimes
```

Pseudocode is just one of many tools which will help you make efficient progress on your code, even when you feel stuck. 

## Appendix
```
- Abstraction: generalization of phsyical concepts to allow for focus on more important information
- Assign: set the variable to the specified value
- Boolean: "True, or False; 1, or 0"
- Conditional: Boolean logic; Change control flow depending on the state of a variable or function
- Declare: Give meaing to the word
- Dynamic: Can be changed
- Function: A block of user-created code which accomplishes one specific, repeatable task
- High level language: Coding language which provides abstractions from machine instruction to promote efficiency and ease of use. 
- Instantiate: Bring a variable into existence within program scope
- Language: Formal syntax by which to talk to a computer
- Low level language: Coding language which does not provide many abstraction of programming conce[ts. ]
- Pseudocode: Code written in the english language:  Represents ideological program flow
- Static: Cannot be changed
- Variable: "Box" which contains a value; Changeable or constant"
```

[Back to README](README.md)