# Numerical Systems, Binary Notation, Hex Notation, 2's Complement

## Numerical Systems

A number system is simply a way to represent numbers. The most prevalent of which are: Decimal, Binary, Octal, and Hexadecimal. [Introduction to Number Systems](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FFDMzbrEXaE&pp=ygUoaG93IHRvIGNvbnZlcnQgZGVjaW1hbCB0byBiaW5hcnkgYW5kIGhleA%3D%3D)

__Decimal__: The standard for general mathematics education. Easy to think about and even easier to increment. 
- Numbers iterate from 0 to 9
- Each position shows a particular power of the base (10)

__Binary__: The standard for bit counting in Computer Science. Easy to increment, slightly tougher to conceptualize sometimes. Think of it like this: something can be off (0) or on (1). 
- Numbers are represented as a positional notation in which each digit represents an exponent of two.
- Each position shows a particular power of the base (2).

```sh
Take the number 33, for example
    To find the number of digits, repeatedly divide by 2 until the number is equal to 0. 
    Total number of divisions is proportionate to the length of the bitstring.
    Use the remainder as the value at n'th index of the bitstring.

 In this case, you can divide 33 by 2 six times before reaching a quotient of 0.
 
 ```

__Hex__: Another incredibly important number system of Computer Science. This is most frequently used to represent data either in storage or transit.
- Numbers iterate from 0 to 15
- Each index position shows a particular power of the base 16
- How to calculate:
```sh
Take the number 33, for example.
 
          33 / 16 = 2, remainder 1
 
So, you have _Quotient_*(16^1) + _Remainder_*(16^0).
```
Using that methodology, you would represent 33 in Hexadecimal notation as __0x21__.

## 2's Complement
This numerical system is used to help represent negative numbers in a __binary__ context. 

To emphasize again, this relies on a good understanding of Binary notation of numbers. If you have any questions about Binary notation, use online resources or a qualified developer to iron out the wrinkles.

_2's complement is a mathematical operation to reversibly convert a positive binary number into the equivalent negative value, __using the leading binary digit (furthest left in most representations)__ as the sign to indicate whether the sign of the number._

The easiest procedure for getting this number is:
> Flip the bits, add one, ignore the overflow.

```sh 
Example: 
  Calculate the 2's complement value of 6 (6->-6)
  First step, calculate the bitstring:
    6 represented in binary is: 0110
  Flip the bits:
    0110 -> 1001
  Add one to the flipped string:
    1001 -> 1010
```

The 2's complement representation of -6, as shown, is __1010__.

> BLUF: [Flip the bits, add one, ignore the overflow.](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~tomf/notes/cps104/twoscomp.html)

[Back to README](README.md)