# Intro
While Docker might not be a fundamental tools needed for security development, you will need to know basic Docker commands for other exercises.

# Step 1 — Installing Docker

Docker can be installed from the official Ubuntu repository. 

Let's start by updating the host's list of packages:

```
sudo apt update
```

The next step is to install Docker itself.

Make sure you are about to install from the Docker repo instead of the default Ubuntu repo:

```
sudo apt install docker-io docker-compose
```

Docker and Docker Compose should be installed, started, and enabled at startup. 

Check that the daemon is running.

```
sudo systemctl status docker
```

The console output be should similar to the example below showing the service active and running:

```
● docker.service - Docker Application Container Engine
     Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/docker.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: active (running) since Thu 2023-05-18 18:21:11 UTC; 1 week 0 days ago
TriggeredBy: ● docker.socket
       Docs: https://docs.docker.com
   Main PID: 1038 (dockerd)
      Tasks: 81
     Memory: 132.2M
        CPU: 13min 34.434s
     CGroup: /system.slice/docker.service
             ├─ 1038 /usr/bin/dockerd -H fd:// --containerd=/run/containerd/containerd.sock
```

Now you can start to use the docker command line tools to run the exercises provided.

# Step 2 — Add user to group

While it is possible to use `sudo` to run the Docker commands. It's easier to setup Docker by adding the current user to the Docker group.

If you try to execute the Docker command without using sudo or without being a member of the Docker group, you will receive an output similar to the following:

```
Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket at unix:///var/run/docker.sock: Get "http://%2Fvar%2Frun%2Fdocker.sock/v1.24/containers/json": dial unix /var/run/docker.sock: connect: permission denied
```

Check that the docker daemon is running on this host?

See `docker run --help`.

We can simple fix this problem by the command below:

```
sudo usermod -aG docker ${USER}
```
Apply the new group membership, log out of the server and back in, or type the following:

```
su - ${USER}
```

Verify that your user has been successfully added to the Docker group by entering the following command:

```
groups
```
 The output should look similar:
```
<USERNAME> adm cdrom sudo dip plugdev lxd docker
```
