# Implement a robust echo client and server in Python

Platform: Linux

Starter code: [client.py](./client.py), [server.py](./server.py), and [socketlib.py](./socketlib.py)


### Overview

- This assignment will introduce you to network programming in python.

- Write a simple echo server that creates a socket, accepts incoming connections 1-by-1, and then echoes back each message the client sends it.

- Write a simple client that repeatedly asks the user for input, sends it to the server, and receives a response back.

- Just like in C, there is no guarantee in Python that a socket will send all
  the data you give it in the first call to `send` (and similarly for `recv`).
  **You will need to implement a higher-level protocol over TCP to divide the
  stream into recognizable messages and send and receive them reliably**.

- In order to maintain confidentiality, all TCP communications these days should be encrypted with TLS. Your **client and server must use TLS encryption** to prevent detection.

### Requirements

Check off each of the below as you go to help track progress.

- [ ] The server and client accept the IPv6 address and port number as
      command-line arguments.

- [ ] The server and client use TLS encryption for all communications.

- [ ]  All `socketlib.py` methods have been implemented, and are used in `client.py` and `server.py` for their respective functionalities.
  - [ ]  `recv_n`
  - [ ]  `recv_msg`
  - [ ]  `send_msg`
  - [ ]  `validate_ip_port`
  - [ ]  `log`

- [ ] The programs print out helpful usage prompts when used incorrectly.

- [ ] The Programs correctly use a student-implemented protocol to ensure that
      messsages are fully sent and received.

- [ ] The server keeps a log file recording (with timestamps)
    - when the server starts,
    - when a client connects (and the client's address),
    - each message the client sends,
    - when a client closes the connection, and
    - when the server shuts down.

- [ ] Client and server shutdown gracefully when the user enters "exit".

- [ ] Client performs graceful exit if
    - it cannot connect to the server, or if
    - the server closes the connection unexpectedly.

- [ ] Server waits for another connection if the client disconnects unexpectedly.

- [ ] Demonstrate and describe the usage of the following functions in Python:
  - `sendto()`: sends the byte object to the address specified in the function call
  ```python
  # your code here
  ```

  - `recvfrom()`: receives bytes on the socket and returns the byte object as well as the address they're from
  ```python
  # your code here
  ```

  - `gethostname()`: return a string containing the hostname of the machine the code is executing on
  ```python
  # your code here
  ```
