# Demonstrate the ability to use Regular Expressions in C

[Back to OVERVIEW](../../README.md)

### Requirements
Complete the TODOs in the [regex.c](./regex.c) file. You will complete the three functions named `ex_1`, `ex_2`, and `ex_3`.  Helper functions for printing results are implemented and referenced within the notes of the functions.

The exercises are based on using regular expressions (hereafter "regex") to find valid IPs in the provided strings. This simulates network enumeration on a compromised system on the computer's ARP table, hosts file, etc. For the purpose of this exercise, do not limit the X integers to the valid IP integer range of 0-255 (this is to make it easier on you).
> e.g. 281.021.000.992 would be considered valid. 19a.68.0.1 is invalid.


### `ex_1`
Devise a regex to match an IPv4 address in the format of X.X.X.X where X is an integer. Compile the regex where indicted and use the `regexec` function call to detect a match.   

### `ex_2`
Use repeated calls to `regexec` to find all IPv4 address matches and call the `print_partial_string()` function to print every IP address found.

### `ex_3`
Modify your regex to include *capture groups* and print any capture groups found in the four test strings for the first match found.

### Resources
Documentation on the `regex.h` C stdlib file and its flags/methods is available in the [regex_doc.txt](./regex_doc.txt).

### Testing

For testing purposes, remove the comment `\\` before each function call in main. There are four defined strings that are passed to each of the 3 functions you will finish.

The following are the expected test results for each function when called with the various strings:

|  String Used  |  `ex_1`  |  `ex_2`  |  `ex_3`  (capture groups) |
| ------------- | -------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
| `string_ex_1` | Found. 192.168.31.2 | 4 IPs printed.   | 192, 168, 31, 2 are printed |
| `string_ex_2` | No matches found    | No matches found | no matches found |
| `string_ex_3` | No matches found    | No matches found | No matches found |
| `string_ex_4` | Found. 0.0.0.0      | 2 IPs printed    | 0, 0, 0, 0 are printed  |

[Back to OVERVIEW](../../README.md)