# Fuzz a binary With AFL

Use AFL (American Fuzzy Lop) to fuzz the included binary and write a secure implementation of the same functionality in C.
Use a decompiler such as ghidra to aid in your secure re-implementation.
Finally, compile your secure program with `afl-gcc -g -fsanitize=address secure.c -o secure` and attempt to fuzz it.

- Install afl by cloning the repo and running `make` and/or `make install`

- Read the "Fuzzing Binaries" section of AFL documentation, the binary is compiled with AFL instrumentation.

Answer the questions below:

- What is fuzzing in the scope of secure development?

```text

```

- What is the purpose of supplying an input directory to afl?

```text

```

- What output is generated by AFL (both file/folder and tty)?

```text

```
<!-- Needs a little information on what the file does. This will help with the implementation part. It is a little vague. Maybe add some function comments or comment on the overall objective of the file -->
- What are at least three bug types/vulnerabilities discovered by fuzzing? What is the address of the vulnerable/bugged ASM instruction(s), and (if possible) how an exploit could be crafted (Bonus for developing exploit PoC code)?
  - Bugs in the program are:
  - CWE-476 NULL Pointer Dereference
  - CWE-190 Integer Overflow
  - CWE-122 Heap-based Buffer Overflow
  - CWE-415 Double Free
  - CWE-416 Use After Free
  - CWE-191 Integer Underflow
  - CWE-369 Divide By Zero
  - CWE-125 Out-of-bounds Read
  - CWE-787 Out-of-bounds Write
  - CWE-401 Missing Release of Memory after Effective Lifetime

```text
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
```

- What happened when fuzzing the secure rewritten program?

```text

```

References:

- [AFL Documentation](https://afl-1.readthedocs.io/en/latest/fuzzing.html#fuzzing-binaries)
- [AFL GitHub Repo](https://github.com/google/AFL)
- [Common Weakness Enumeration](https://cwe.mitre.org/index.html)
- JQR Reverse Engineering Section
