# Demonstrate usage of git

This exercise is intended to give you some practical experience using git commands.

Fill in the TODO items in the shell script [`git-script.sh`](./git-script.sh) in order to perform standard git actions on a new mini repository.

Your commit messages should follow the format recommended in the second reference.

We'll check your work by checking the commands you inserted and then running
`$ git log --graph`
which displays a nice graph of your commit history. We recommend using this yourself to see what your script did.

A few notes:
- Git commands are usually executed directly on the terminal, not from a shell script. You are doing them in a script so that we can review your work. We'd highly encourage you to execute the commands from the script interactively in the terminal (with some `git status` commands interspersed) if you want to see them in a more realistic context.

- The script will create an entirely new repository in this directory. This will not really impact your TTG-B repo at all. You can clean up all changes made by the script by running it again with the `--clean` flag:
`$ ./git-script.sh --clean`

- In order to make the script simpler, we don't include any pushes or pulls from a remote repo. These typically aren't too hard (and you've already had to do them for the TTG-B!).

## Resources:
- [git tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud)
- [commit message format](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/)

[Back to README](README.md)