# Demonstrate an Understanding of Core Socket Concepts

[Back to OVERVIEW](../README.md)
## What are sockets?

In a networking context, sockets are one of the fundamental components that enable communication between computers. A socket is an endpoint which allows processes on different machines to establish connections, send data, and receive data between sockets.

At its core, a socket is characterized using a combination of an IP address and a port number. By specifying both of these things, a process can specify were to send data to an existing socket. An IP address is a unique identifier for a computer on the network. IP addresses are typically strings of numbers seperated by periods or colons. You can view your computers ip address in the command line by using the command `ifconfig` in linux (assuming that net-tools is installed), or `ipconfig` in Windows.

Each computer also has multiple ports which can be used. Certain ports are, by convention, assosciatted with certain services. For example, web servers typically use port 80 (for HTTP connections) or port 443 (for HTTPS connections).

Sockets operate based on the client-server model: a server waits for incoming connections on a specific port, while a client initiates a connection to the server by specifying the server's IP address and port number. Once a connection is established, data can be exchanged bidirectionally. 

## TCP vs. UDP

Sockets can run using multiple different protocols. These protocols determine the format that will be used to transmit data, and what additional control data (if any) will need to be included in a transmission. The two most common socket protocols are TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and UDP (User Datagram Protocol). 

TCP is a connection-oriented protocol that establishes a reliable and ordered communication channel between two devices before data exchange begins. It ensures data integrity by acknowedging when a data packet is received, and retransmitting lost data to guarantee that all data arrives at its destination without errors and in the correct order. TCP is commonly used for applications like web browsing, email, and file transfer where data integrity and reliability are crucial. 

UDP is a connectionless protocol that does not establish a dedicated connection before sending data. It is faster and has lower overhead compared to TCP because it does not guarantee that data will arrive intact. If a packet is lost or corrupted, it will not be retransmitted. UDP is used in applications where speed is prioritized over guaranteed delivery, such as real-time video streaming. 

Questions:

- In your own words, what is a socket?

```bash
$
```

- Can a single computer have multiple IP addresses?

```bash
$
```

- A socket is accepting connections over port 587. Assuming it is following typical port conventions, what is this socket most likely being used for?
  
```bash
$
```

- Give an example of another situation where UDP would likely be used instead of TCP.

```bash
$
```

References:

- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_socket)
- [What is a socket?](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/unix_sockets/what_is_socket.htm)
- [List of TCP and UDP port numbers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_TCP_and_UDP_port_numbers)
- [TCP vs. UDP](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/differences-between-tcp-and-udp/)

[Back to OVERVIEW](../README.md)
