# Demonstrate an understanding of the purpose of CNO Networking

[Back to OVERVIEW](../README.md)
## Why networking?

Networking describes the conventions that machines use to communicate with each other. It is the highway in which information flows between computers, whether more phsyical, like ethernet cables and wires, or less visible, like WiFi and bluetooth. By providing more numerous and dynamic methods of communication, networking allows for access to systems and information far and wide, without the need for floppy disks, USBs, or face-to-face interaction, for example.

In the context of CNO programming, networking affords the ability to gain access to and information from systems in a removed and discreet manner, and is the basis for which we gather information about and launch offensives towards a target. As such, having a concrete understanding of its use and inner workings is the key to wielding its power, even in the unusual circumstances that are intrinsic to CNO and offensive cybersecurity.

Networking is the basis of techniques that are used to gain information about a target. Some examples of this include:
- ARP Scanning
  - This utilizes the ARP networking protocol in order to identify and fingerprint machines on a network
- Port scanning
  - This utilizes the TCP and UDP protocols in order to see what ports are open on a network, and attempts to identify the services they are running, as well as the degree that ports are open (filtered, open, closed)
  - Knowledge of open ports and their services are often points of access to remote target systems, through exploitation of those services
- Packet sniffing
  - This is a method of detecting and assessing packet data over a network. It requires understanding of all the layers and protocols related to networking
  - Packets can be deconstructed, and sensitive information and patterns can be extracted from network

The above techniques can also be exploited for our own goals. By understanding the function and structure of packets that is expected by a protocol, we can spoof, poison, and/or decode the information in the packets, either tricking the target or eavesdropping in on it.

Networking is also used when attacking a target with the goal of gaining access to that target system. 
When the entry point to a target system is over some network protocol, that protocol must be used in a way that allows us to execute our goals on that target. Some examples of this include:
- Uploading an implant file
- Searcing the contents of the target machine
- Executing commands
- Setting up a backdoor
- Exporting information back to ourselves
These can occur over many different protocols. Due to the nature of CNO, we often don't get to do these things the 'easy' way, either because we don't have access to it, or because it would cause our activity to be detected. Each problem is unique to the goals and environment of the attack, therefore requiring more custom networking techniques that can only be built off a strong understanding of networking and protocols. 

CNO and offensive cyber at many times requires that we break things to exploit their functionality, but that can only be achieved with a deep understanding of what is being broken. As CNO programmers, we must understand the resources that we have in order to make tools from them, and to make tools that work reliably without compromising our overall goals. The exploits we use must be reliable and predictable 100% of the time, with all risks accounted for, which is only possible with thorough understanding of the pieces that are being used in that exploit.

## Questions:

- In your own words, why is networking important to CNO programmers?
```
ANSWER:
```
- Give three examples of ways that networking is used to exploit a target
```
ANSWER:
```
- Describe a fake example scenario where networking is used in the CNO context to exploit a target
```
ANSWER:
```

Resources:
- [Networking Basics for Hackers](https://www.hackingloops.com/networking-basics-for-hackers/)
- [Network Hacking](https://www.insecure.in/network-hacking)
- [Common Protocol Vulnerabilities](https://cqr.company/web-vulnerabilities/common-protocol-vulnerabilities/)
- [14 Most Common Network Protocols and Their Vulnerabilities](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/14-most-common-network-protocols-and-their-vulnerabilities/#)